Chapter 2,
it's a fun chapter in my opinion,
because we start going away from
the infrastructure portion.
We have this last piece of info that we're
gonna deploy, which is the API gateway.
I'm explaining what that is.
We also introduced an interface for
the first time.
We wrote so much code,
we didn't even talk about interfaces.
We're gonna show an interface,
we're going to hash the user passwords,
and we're going to have
to do some refactoring.
A lot of people are not gonna be happy
with that, but because we're introducing
our API gateway, we're gonna have to
change the function that we wrote.
So if you're excited, let's go.
[LAUGH] All right, so
the first thing I wanna do is
actually head to our database DB.
This is a nice little
function we've got going on.
We have some constants,
we have a bunch of cool stuff.
And it revolves around our star,
which are our DynamoDBClient struct.
But let me ask everyone here a question,
what if one day we decide
not to use DynamoDB?
Yeah, we don't.
No, let's go back to Postgres, right?
In our example here,
the implication isn't too bad, right?
We can make a do, we can kind of fix it.
However, where you have tightly
coupled logic with your
table can cause some
real pain moving forward.
And what I wanna introduce
here is an interface.
And what an interface is,
is a collection of method signatures.
That's all it is.
It's a type that has functions defined.
And those functions quite literally don't
do anything cuz you're just defining
a function there.
And why is this important?
Well, this interface we are gonna use,
instead of our DynamoDB client,
we're gonna pass it down and
we're not gonna no longer depend on
our DynamoDB client to be passed
up from our API layer, okay?
So I'm gonna show you what
this actually looks like.
So right above our DynamoDB client.
And one thing to note, you typically
wouldn't define your interface
in the actual file that you're
gonna essentially abstract from.
You define your interface where you're
gonna call the DB, but I'm putting it here
just as an example to showcase the method
signatures with the defined methods and
how we're no longer depending
on a direct DynamoDB client.
So do type typically,
interfaces in Go they have very
general names and are very specific.
It's not like DynamoDB interface or
interface,
they have to be very specific or
very general cuz that's what they do.
They generalize the interacting with.
So I'm gonna call this one user store cuz
what we're gonna be inserting into our
user database.
It's gonna be interface, okay?
And like I said, this doesn't have fields.
You don't put name string I should say or
anything like that.
You actually define functions, and
here in the UserStore we're gonna find
a function we should already using.
So we have two functions in our client
now, we have DoesUserExist, okay?
And the way we can define this is
if you go down here, DoesUserExist,
takes in a username, string and
returns a Boolean and an error.
So that's we're gonna right,
it's gonna be username, oops.
Okay, guess it did not like that.
DoesUserExist(username string), and
it's gonna return bool and
error, and that's it.
Next it's gonna be the second
function we have, InsertUser, okay?
This InsertUser is going to be
user types.RegisterUser, and
it's gonna return an error.
And why is that?
Well, that's actually what is
happening in the InsertUser function.
Takes in a user of types RegisterUser,
and it returns an error.
All right, so
this is what the interface is.
To be honest, so far,
our interface hasn't done much.
It's just a collection of methods.
The logic still remains as is, we're not
gonna get any errors, not gonna to gain
any compilation errors, nothing is
gonna go bad with this interface.
But now the real magic
happens when we actually
are expecting the type for
our database layer.
So you can see here we're explicitly
saying this is gonna be a DynamoDB client.
Let's remove that and just put UserStore.
We're gonna get yelled
at in just a second.
Wait for it but, if you go here,
we change this to now a UserStore, okay?
We basically now removed and
decoupled our database from the rest of
our code cuz now we have this interface.
So what does this mean?
What does it truly mean
that we've done this?
If we go to our database.go,
what I'm saying here is any struct,
so now we have a specific DynamoDB client.
But what if we create
a Postgres DB client and
that Postgres DB client has a
DoesUserExist and an insert user function?
If we do that and we go all the way
back to our app.go and we call it,
we can pass that as the type to
satisfy the UserStore interface.
Because look,
we are still calling DB on line 15.
From new DB client, we are getting
a DB client as the return here,
we're not getting a UserStore return, so
when we're instantiating our DB,
it's explicitly returning this type.
But the new API handler is
expecting a UserStore type,
not the Dynamo DB client type.
And the reason for
that is because the Dynamo DB client,
the methods on that struct, are satisfying
the method signature of the interface.
So now, in practical use case,
you can swap out your DB.
And the only part you really
need to make the change
besides the actual database.go
file is right here.
Instead of calling NewDynamoDBClient,
you can call new Postgres client,
whatever DB you want.
If it satisfies the interface,
your business logic,
your API logic stays the same.
So I think that's really cool [LAUGH]
I think it's super powerful thing.
This is called like
decoupling our database.
And it gives us more kind of flexibility.
And this is why organizing your code in
Go has a lot of like merit to it because
you can start using things
like interfaces and
start throwing around different ways
to pass things down into your structs.
Any questions on interfaces
on what we just did?
>> So it's structural typing
versus nominals typing,
where the names in TypeScript
if the names don't match up,
even though the objects are the same
>> Yeah.
>> You get an error but and go if
the objects look the same, they satisfy
>> No so great point.
If, let's say our interface here, right?
Well, we only care about the types.
So we can change this username to
be whatever you whatever we want.
But if we change this to an int, okay,
our interface is gonna be good, but
look at all the red that
just happened on our code.
And the reason for this, if we go back
down to app, we're getting this error.
Does user exist has,
we have a string returns bool error,
but we want is an integer in a bool error,
right?
So the type is really what is
constraining the binding of
a struct definition to
the interface expectation.
And the name of the function also matters,
so
the name of the function
does matter actually.
Because you can have another function
that's exactly the same, but
if it's not called DoesUserExist, and
like DoesUserExists with a plural or typo.
You're gonna get the same error that you
cannot satisfy the constraint of this
method of this type.
Cool, let's make sure we
go back to a string here.
So those are kind of interfaces
in a more practical sense.
There's a lot more use case of interfaces,
a lot more.
You can have a naked interface which
is kind of the any type equivalent.
So if you come from Typescript and you
have the any type, the naked interface, so
it's basically just interface like this
is considered the naked interface and
you can pass any parameter in here.
You can pass any type in here.
Don't satisfy that.
Because the underlying data
structure on the majority,
if not all things in Go is the interface.